---
layout: page
---

# Submitting a project for inclusion on this site
If you are a UCLH researcher, you can submit details about your own research project(s) and have them added to this site.

**Step 1**: [Upload datasets and code to a research data repository](#step-1-upload-datasets-and-code-to-a-research-data-repository)

**Step 2**: [Clone our repository on GitHub](#step-2-clone-our-repository-on-github)

**Step 3**: [Complete the project template](#step-3-complete-the-project-template)

**Step 4**: [Make a pull request](#step-4-make-a-pull-request)

## Step 1: Upload datasets and code to a research data repository

To help people who are interested in your research to better understand what data you have used and how you process it, it can be helpful to generate a synthetic dataset which you can share together with any relevant computer code in an open-access repository. We recommend using UCL's institutional [research data respository](https://rdr.ucl.ac.uk/) service as it is free for all UCL researchers to use and provides an embed link which can be used to include your data alongside details about your project on this site. Please read the guidance on the [UCL Library Researd Data Repository](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/library/open-science-research-support/research-data-management/ucl-research-data-repository) page for details on how to prepare and upload your data.

Once your submission has been approved, you can find the embed URL by navigating to your deposit's page and selecting 'Embed' from the menu. Copy the iframe tag and include this in one of the html or markdown files you create in Step 3.

## Step 2: Clone our repository on GitHub

To complete the next steps you will need a GitHub account, which will enable you to take a copy of the site's code and later merge your changes back in. If you don't have one you can [sign up for free](https://github.com/join). You will also need to [install git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) on your personal device.

The source code for this site can be found on GitHub: [{{site.data.github.url}}](https://{{site.data.github.url}}). To copy the code to work with on your own device, clone the repository with your git client or via the command line: 

`git clone https://{{site.data.github.url}}.git`

## Step 3: Complete the project template

Once you have cloned the repository, you will need to create a new branch as you will not be able to merge your changes directly back into the main branch. Choose a name that identifies you or your group, and the name of the project, for example:

`git switch -c group-a-project-x`

The pages for each project are kept in separate folders under `/_projects`, where you will also find a template for creating new projects: `_project_template`. Copy this folder and name it after your project. The name of the folder will be used to generate the title for your project (see below for how to override this). As a minimum your project folder should contain two files:

* index.md
* authors.txt

### index.md
Every project folder must include a file called index.md, which serves as the landing page for your project. This page should include a lay summary of your project written in [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) format. You can include as much detail as you like, but you also have the option to add additional pages if you'd like to split things like discussion of the data analysis or how you protect sensitive data into separate sections (see extra content below). If you're new to markdown, have a look at this [markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) to help you get started.

### authors.txt
This file is simply a list of all the people you'd like to include as authors on the project. Their names will appear at the top of the page, and on the summary card shown on the website's home page.

Each name should appear on a separate line.

### title.txt
By default the title for your project will be derived from the folder name by replacing any dash or hyphen characters with spaces, and converting the result to title case.

If you'd like to override this, add a file called `title.txt` and write the title for your project on the first line.

### Extra content
If you'd like to split content across several pages, or include an embed link for your data, you can add extra content by including additional markdown or html files in your project folder. This content will appear in separate tabs across the top of the page. 

**Please note**: Only files with .html or .md suffixes are included, anything else is ignored. This can be useful if you need to include assets (images, javascript, css etc.) such as those generated by quarto.

The name of the file is used to generate the tab label for the extra content as follows:

* The filename suffix (.md/.html is removed)
* Any underscore(_) or hyphen (-) characters are replaced with spaces
* Digits at the start of the filename are removed
* Any whitespace remaining at the start or end of the name is removed
* The name is converted to title case

As an example, the tab label for `03_code-and_data.md` would be "Code And Data".

Tab order is alphabetical (except index.md which always appears first). To determine the order in which tabs appear, use numbers at the start of your filenames (e.g. `01_methods.md`, `02_privacy.md`, `03_data.html`).

## Step 4: Make a pull request

To publish your project, you will need to merge the new files into the main branch on the GitHub repository. To do this you will need to push the branch you've created back up to GitHub and then submit a [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests). The pull request process allows us to review submissions before they are added to ensure they comply with our standards.

### Pushing your branch to GitHub
If you originally cloned the code as described in step 2, you can push the branch you've created back up to GitHub as follows:

```bash
git push --set-upstream origin <name_of_your_branch>
```

Then, if you open the repository in GitHub, you should be able to see your branch listed in the drop down menu labelled main at the top of the list of files. 

Pushing to the repository triggers an automatic process which will generate metadata and prepend it to index.md. Once generated, if you're comfortable working with Jekyll, you can edit this metadata to do things like changing the automatically generated project title and tab labels.

### Submitting a Pull Request
To open a pull request:
* Select Pull requests from the top navigation menu
* Click the green 'New pull request' button
* Select main from the left hand side dropdown labelled base (this should already be selected)
* Select your branch from the right hand side dropdown labelled compare
* Click 'Create pull request'
* Add a title and description, including any details you think may be relevant for somebody reviewing your changes
* Then click 'Create pull request'

Your pull request will then need to be approved by two reviewers who are chosen automatically from a pool of volunteer editors. Reviewers might sometimes make comments or request changes before approving your submission so please make sure you are able to receive notifications from GitHub in order to respond to their requests.

Once approved, your project will be merged into the main branch and it will automatically appear on the live website.